---
slug: mint-stack
title: Introducing Mint Stack
author: Pankaj Sanam
author_title: Creator of Mint Stack
author_url: https://github.com/antick
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/5011836?s=460&u=c48368d20b415429e2a55fbfcc38445e1fefcef7&v=4
tags: [hello, mint, react, redux, node, express]
---

Welcome to the Mint Stack Blog. I am very excited to share my work to the open source community. I have spent 
hundreds of hours on weekends on the first release. I hope you find it as useful as I do, to start my projects.

Here, particularly on this blog, I would share the articles and tutorials related to the Mint Stack.

<!--truncate-->

### Why Mint Stack?

I wanted to solve some challenges that I was facing while working on my side projects. I needed few things up and running
for all my side projects. It was very time-consuming and frustrating to keep writing and tweaking the same code that I
could have built once and use in all my projects. So I thought about building a boilerplate at once that would be 
up-to-date and will follow the best coding standards and practices with most of the stuff pre-configured that we should
use in our new projects.

So I built this stack that contains all the essential things out-of-the-box. This way, I don't have to spend my time
on the repetitive things. It's boring to work on the same thing constantly. I'm sure you all would agree with me on that.

With that in mind, I am pretty sure that you would love ❤ the Mint Stack and it will help you to start your projects 
with all the required things.

### What Does Mint Stack Offers?

Right now, at the time of writing this post, we only and MERN stack built within this stack. We have kept the backend 
and frontend integration in separate repos, so they can be hosted on different servers if required.

You can access the [Mint Express](https://github.com/antick/mint-express) and [Mint React](https://github.com/antick/mint-react) 
repositories and check out the code yourself.

We make sure of the following things while building these stacks:

1. It should follow a modular architecture, so we can plug in and out the modules easily.
2. It should follow the best coding standards and practices as defined globally by a standard community.
3. It should have the unit, integration and end-to-end tests to ensure the quality of the code.
